Update Minimal API tutorial for .NET 7 (#27070)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/tutorials/min-web-api.md

> Minimal APIs are architected to create HTTP APIs with minimal dependencies. They are ideal for microservices and apps that want to include only the minimum files, features, and dependencies in ASP.NET Core.

Author: There isn't a file name that fits both model and context together, so as long as we're splitting the code up into separate files we may as well make two, one for each class.

> Minimal APIs are architected to create HTTP APIs with minimal dependencies. They are ideal for microservices and apps that want to include only the minimum files, features, and dependencies in ASP.NET Core.

Reviewer: > There isn't a file name that fits both model and context together, so as long as we're splitting the code up into separate files we may as well make two, one for each class.

That's fine. I think I've named the file `ContextModel.cs` or something like that.

This tutorial teaches the basics of building a minimal web API with ASP.NET Core. For a tutorial on creating a web API project based on [controllers](xref:web-api/index) that contains more features, see [Create a web API](xref:tutorials/first-web-api). For a comparison, see [Differences between minimal APIs and APIs with controllers](#diff-v7) in this tutorial.

> ## Overview

Reviewer: Probably two files is best.

## Update the generated code

> This tutorial focuses on creating a web API, so we'll delete the Swagger code and the `WeatherForecast` code. Replace the contents of the `Program.cs` file with the following:

Reviewer 2: Instead of requiring users to update the generated code, I wonder if it makes more sense to have users start with the smaller web template via:

```
$ dotnet new web -O MinimalApiApp
```

Or the "ASP.NET Core Empty" template in Visual Studio. It'll allow us to remove this content section in the tutorial and help readers get to the main point of the tutorial faster. Thoughts?

Author: Makes sense to me. That would also eliminate any confusion over why we start working with a weather forecast API when we say up front that we're going to build a to-do API. The section we're considering demonstrates the Swagger UI -- we could transpose that to the to-do section but it might be better to leave it out since there is already a tutorial dedicated to covering Swagger.

@Rick-Anderson -- what do you think?

Reviewer: > @Rick-Anderson -- what do you think?

I agree.

The sample app implements a single DELETE endpoint using `MapDelete`:

[!code-csharp[](min-web-api/samples/7.x/todo/Program.cs?name=snippet_delete)]

Use Postman to delete a to-do item:

* Set the method to `DELETE`.
* Set the URI of the object to delete (for example `https://localhost:5001/todoitems/1`).
* Select **Send**.

## Use the MapGroup API

> The sample app code repeats the `todoitems` URL node each time it sets up an endpoint. Web APIs often have groups of endpoints with a common URL node, and the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.EndpointRouteBuilderExtensions.MapGroup%2A> method is available to help organize such groups. It reduces repetitive code and allows for customizing entire groups of endpoints with a single call to methods like <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.AuthorizationEndpointConventionBuilderExtensions.RequireAuthorization%2A> and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.RoutingEndpointConventionBuilderExtensions.WithMetadata%2A>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The sample app code repeats the `todoitems` URL prefix each time it sets up an endpoint. Web APIs often have groups of endpoints with a common URL prefix, and the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.EndpointRouteBuilderExtensions.MapGroup%2A> method is available to help organize such groups. It reduces repetitive code and allows for customizing entire groups of endpoints with a single call to methods like <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.AuthorizationEndpointConventionBuilderExtensions.RequireAuthorization%2A> and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.RoutingEndpointConventionBuilderExtensions.WithMetadata%2A>.
```

The sample app implements a single DELETE endpoint using `MapDelete`:

[!code-csharp[](min-web-api/samples/7.x/todo/Program.cs?name=snippet_delete)]

Use Postman to delete a to-do item:

* Set the method to `DELETE`.
* Set the URI of the object to delete (for example `https://localhost:5001/todoitems/1`).
* Select **Send**.

## Use the MapGroup API

The sample app code repeats the `todoitems` URL node each time it sets up an endpoint. Web APIs often have groups of endpoints with a common URL node, and the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.EndpointRouteBuilderExtensions.MapGroup%2A> method is available to help organize such groups. It reduces repetitive code and allows for customizing entire groups of endpoints with a single call to methods like <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.AuthorizationEndpointConventionBuilderExtensions.RequireAuthorization%2A> and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.RoutingEndpointConventionBuilderExtensions.WithMetadata%2A>.

Replace the code in Program.cs with the following code:

:::code language="csharp" source="min-web-api/samples/7.x/todoGroup/Program.cs" id="snippet_all":::

> Notice that a `MapGroup()` call sets up the group, and the endpoints omit the `todoitems` prefix:

Reviewer: Edit: I like `Map<HttpVerb>`

Consider changing this to something like

The preceding code has the following changes:

* Add `RouteGroupBuilder group = app.MapGroup("/todoitems");` to set up the map group using the URI prefix `/todoitems`
* Changes all the `app.MapVerb` methods to :
   *  `group.MapVert`
   * Removes the mapped URI prefix `/todoitems` from the `MapVerb` methods first parameter.
 
To keep it that short and clean, you'd probably have to remove `app.MapGet("/", () => "Hello World!");` so you don't have to explain that away. But that would be an improvement. Otherwise you're just showing a bunch of code and it's not clear what has changed.

Author: If we get rid of the Hello world MapGet we lose the “browser check” feature of the tutorial sample app and when we run the app we’ll get an error page instead of a Hello world message.

Reviewer: Let's see how it goes. API code doesn't have a UI. Makes for a cleaner migration if you ask me.

Author: Yes, it looks good without extra MapGet.

:::code language="csharp" source="min-web-api/samples/7.x/todoGroup/Program.cs" id="snippet_group":::

Test the endpoints to verify that they work the same.

## Use the TypedResults API

> The `Map<HttpVerb>` methods can call route handler methods instead of using lambdas. To see an example, replace the code in *Program.cs* with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Map<HttpVerb>` methods can call route handler methods instead of using lambdas. To see an example, update *Program.cs* with the following code:
```
or something less tedious than code repeated twice
replace the contents of program.c ...

To demonstrate the DTO approach, update the `Todo` class to include a secret field:

:::code language="csharp" source="min-web-api/samples/7.x/todoDTO/Program.cs" id="snippet_secret" highlight="6":::

The secret field needs to be hidden from this app, but an administrative app could choose to expose it.

Verify you can post and get the secret field.

Create a DTO model:

:::code language="csharp" source="min-web-api/samples/7.x/todoDTO/Program.cs" id="snippet_DTO":::

> Update the code to use `TodoItemDTO`:

Reviewer: The following code shows `#endif`
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3605364/191873970-3598efba-f7f9-4b4b-bdae-58caf101a6fd.png)

Also, let's get those awful classes out of program.cs

[!code-csharp[](min-web-api/samples/6.x/todoDTO/Program.cs?name=snippet_all)]

Verify you can post and get all fields except the secret field.

<a name="diff-v7"></a>

## Differences between minimal APIs and APIs with controllers

Minimal APIs have:

- Different support for filters. For more information, see [Filters in Minimal API apps](../fundamentals/minimal-apis/min-api-filters.md)
- No support for model binding, for example: <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ModelBinding.IModelBinderProvider>, <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ModelBinding.IModelBinder>. Support can be added with a custom binding shim.
  - No support for binding from forms, except for <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IFormFile>. For more information, see [File uploads using IFormFile and IFormFileCollection](xref:aspnetcore-7#file-uploads-using-iformfile-and-iformfilecollection).
- No built-in support for validation, i.e. <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ModelBinding.Validation.IModelValidator>
- No support for [application parts](xref:mvc/extensibility/app-parts) or the [application model](xref:mvc/controllers/application-model). There's no way to apply or build your own conventions.

> - No built-in view rendering support. We recommend using [Razor Pages](xref:tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start) for rendering views.

Reviewer: Under this is No support for [ApiVersioning](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.Versioning/). See [this issue](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnet-api-versioning/issues/751) for more details.

that should be removed

[!code-csharp[](min-web-api/samples/7.x/WebMinJson/Program.cs?name=snippet_2)]

## Next steps

### Handle errors and exceptions

The [developer exception page](xref:web-api/handle-errors#developer-exception-page) is enabled by default in the development environment for minimal API apps. For information about how to handle errors and exceptions, see [Handle errors in ASP.NET Core web APIs](xref:web-api/handle-errors).

### Test minimal API apps

> For an example of testing a minimal API app, see [this GitHub sample](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/fundamentals/minimal-apis/7.0-samples/MinApiTestsSample).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an example of testing a minimal API app, see [this GitHub sample](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/tree/main/fundamentals/minimal-apis/samples/MinApiTestsSample/MinApiTests).
```
